README.adoc, before:

= jinx

jinx is a recursive acronym: jinx is not xml-schema

jinx is json-schema!

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/jinx.svg["Clojars",link="https://clojars.org/jinx"]
image:https://circleci.com/gh/juxt/jinx.svg?style=shield["CircleCI", link="https://circleci.com/gh/juxt/jinx"]

== Introduction

Almost all Clojure implementations of https://json-schema.org/[json
schema validators] wrap Java libraries. This is generally a good idea.

However, there are some reasons why a _native_ Clojure implementation
can be useful:

* Java libraries compile jsonschema to object graphs, making them
  inaccessible to many of the data functions in the Clojure core
  library.

* On the front-end, it can be painful to have to convert Clojure data
  to JavaScript objects simply for the purposes of calling a
  jsonschema validation such as
  https://github.com/epoberezkin/ajv[Ajv].

* Extensibility: JSON Schema is designed to be extended with additional
  vocabularies. Clojure has some nice open-for-extension mechanisms.

* Size: Implementing JSON Schema is not that scary in a language as
  nice as Clojure. There's not so much code to read, understand and
  possibly extend.

== Scope

This library implements JSON Schema 'draft7'
(draft-handrews-json-schema-validation-01).

== Status

CAUTION: This is a new project, of alpha status. There may be future
incompatible changes ahead.

Most core features are working but there is more work yet to do:

* Improved Error messages
* Relative json-pointer
* Patterns for uri-template and idn-email

This library is tested with the official
https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite[JSON-Schema-Test-Suite].

JSON Schema provides an official test suite, of which jinx passes all
the non-optional tests, and all but two of the optional tests.

== Usage

=== Require

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[juxt.jinx.alpha :as jinx])
----

=== Create a schema

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/schema {"type" "array" "items" {"type" "string"}})
----

=== Create a schema (short-hand)

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/clj->jsch ['string])
----

=== Validate a document

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/validate
  {}
  (jinx/schema {"type" "object"}))
----

== Schemas

A schema is a Clojure map (or boolean) that should be augmented with
metadata by calling `juxt.jinx.alpha/schema` on the schema data:

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/schema {"type" "object"})
----

== Resolvers

Validation can take an optional options map.

The `:resolvers` entry should be a collection of resolvers.

* `:juxt.jinx.alpha.resolve/built-in` is the built-in resolver which will resolve schemas contained in the library, such as the draft7 meta-schema.

* `:juxt.jinx.alpha.resolve/default-resolver` is a resolver which takes an argument of a map of URIs (or regexes) to values.
+
A value can be a schema (which should be pre-processed with schema metadata by calling `juxt.jinx.alpha.schema/schema`).
+
A value may also be a function (called with the URI or, in the case of a regex, the result of the regex match):
+
[source,clojure]
----
{#"http://example.com/schemas/(.*)" (fn [match] {:type "object"
                                                 :path (second match)})}
----

== Developing

When you clone this repository, use the `--recursive` option to ensure
that the official json schema repo is also cloned (as a submodule).

----
git clone --recursive https://github.com/juxt/jinx
----

== Alternative implementations

* https://github.com/niquola/json-schema.clj

Commit message:

Rename to insilica.jinx to avoid name collisions with juxt.jinx

README.adoc, after:

= jinx

jinx is a recursive acronym: jinx is not xml-schema

jinx is json-schema!

image:https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/co.insilica/jinx.svg["Clojars",link="https://clojars.org/co.insilica/jinx"]

== Introduction

Almost all Clojure implementations of https://json-schema.org/[json
schema validators] wrap Java libraries. This is generally a good idea.

However, there are some reasons why a _native_ Clojure implementation
can be useful:

* Java libraries compile jsonschema to object graphs, making them
  inaccessible to many of the data functions in the Clojure core
  library.

* On the front-end, it can be painful to have to convert Clojure data
  to JavaScript objects simply for the purposes of calling a
  jsonschema validation such as
  https://github.com/epoberezkin/ajv[Ajv].

* Extensibility: JSON Schema is designed to be extended with additional
  vocabularies. Clojure has some nice open-for-extension mechanisms.

* Size: Implementing JSON Schema is not that scary in a language as
  nice as Clojure. There's not so much code to read, understand and
  possibly extend.

== Scope

This library implements JSON Schema 'draft7'
(draft-handrews-json-schema-validation-01).

== Status

CAUTION: This is a new project, of alpha status. There may be future
incompatible changes ahead.

Most core features are working but there is more work yet to do:

* Improved Error messages
* Relative json-pointer
* Patterns for uri-template and idn-email

This library is tested with the official
https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite[JSON-Schema-Test-Suite].

JSON Schema provides an official test suite, of which jinx passes all
the non-optional tests, and all but two of the optional tests.

== Usage

=== Require

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[insilica.jinx :as jinx])
----

=== Create a schema

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/schema {"type" "array" "items" {"type" "string"}})
----

=== Create a schema (short-hand)

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/clj->jsch ['string])
----

=== Validate a document

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/validate
  {}
  (jinx/schema {"type" "object"}))
----

== Schemas

A schema is a Clojure map (or boolean) that should be augmented with
metadata by calling `insilica.jinx/schema` on the schema data:

[source,clojure]
----
(jinx/schema {"type" "object"})
----

== Resolvers

Validation can take an optional options map.

The `:resolvers` entry should be a collection of resolvers.

* `:insilica.jinx.resolve/built-in` is the built-in resolver which will resolve schemas contained in the library, such as the draft7 meta-schema.

* `:insilica.jinx.resolve/default-resolver` is a resolver which takes an argument of a map of URIs (or regexes) to values.
+
A value can be a schema (which should be pre-processed with schema metadata by calling `insilica.jinx.schema/schema`).
+
A value may also be a function (called with the URI or, in the case of a regex, the result of the regex match):
+
[source,clojure]
----
{#"http://example.com/schemas/(.*)" (fn [match] {:type "object"
                                                 :path (second match)})}
----

== Developing

When you clone this repository, use the `--recursive` option to ensure
that the official json schema repo is also cloned (as a submodule).

----
git clone --recursive https://github.com/insilica/jinx
----

== Alternative implementations

* https://github.com/niquola/json-schema.clj
